---
layout: post
title:  "Design Project 2"
categories: exam
---
# About
As discussed in class on Friday, 11/20 - Project 2 is an enhancement of project 1.

* You *must* have properly applied the design patterns and principles to your RPSlS implementation.
  These were reviewed and discussed in class -- if you missed it, please find someone's notes.
* You must add a new `Referee` type, which observes the players and uses the Scoring object to determine a winner
* Implement a `main(String[] args)` method to orchestrate game play using the `Referee`

It is up to you how you handle implementation details, such as

* how does the referee know when all players have notified it of a gesture?
* how do you resolve ties or determine winners with >2 players?
* etc.


## Code Requirements:
* You must conform to Java coding style conventions discussed in class.
* You must utilize JavaDoc style commenting on all public declarations.
* You must document uses of all design patterns and principles
in your class comments! 

## Design Requirements:
* UML Diagrams showing your object design, and design patterns
* UML Sequence diagram showing the execution flow of a single round of play


You are encouraged to work together, use Eclipse, Git, and other tools to work through the problems. **However**, all written answers must represent your own understanding of the problem and solution. It is best to work in teams to figure out the problems, but **do not** work together while writing your answers. Sitting with your group while writing your answers results in *very similar* answers that will look like you've copied your work. The only way to avoid this is to work indepdently when you have pen-to-paper on the exam.
